You remember those, but normally there's plenty.
And I would say that the fact that they took us to
church, or we went to church, and to the Young
People's
Union,
kept us on a straight and narrow, I guess. And of
course we had strong fest. We had one family, the
Lairds, they had a piano. And of course one of my
classmates, Edmund Laird, could play the piano. I
mean very good. So everybody would go down there,
all the teenagers would go down to their house and
sing.
Now you really, I don't know why we didn't get in
trouble, but we never did. Let's
talk about your education. You went to Reagan High
School in 1922 to 1926.
Before that time you were in Reagan Elementary
Schools. What were your favorite subjects? Well,
I didn't work real hard in school. I played
football, and I played basketball, and I played
baseball, because you had to. I had ten classmates
in my high school, and about half of them were
girls, so if you didn't play you didn't have a team.
As far as school is concerned, I think we had we got
as good an education as you can get in a small
school. And I think we probably got a better
education than you get in the bigger school, large
consolidated schools now. Because you just got a
lot of individual attention with only 11, 12, or 15
kids in each class. Everybody took exactly the
same. the things you remember are not how hard you
studied. There's normally one teacher, Mrs.
Young, when I was in the second grade while she was
teaching me penmanship. You know you're supposed
to keep your wrist flat to the top of the desk and of
course I was having problems so she was, she was
getting all her long fingernails that pinched me
on my through my wrist and you remember those type
of things. But I guess that teaches you a lesson on
penmanship. But as far as, well of course my
favorite subject was math because I didn't have to
study. It just came natural. It just came natural
that I could
make a hundred on math almost without any problem,
without even studying at all. And you really don't
study very much in a rural community where you go
home and have to pick cotton after school and on
Saturdays and
bale hay and do all of that activity while you
really don't have a lot of opportunity to study.
And I think the other...
Well,
I think that as far as English is concerned in high
school, it wasn't stressed enough in my high
school. It was not? I can remember one teacher, why
she liked to read, so instead of making us write
themes and things of this sort, why she was reading
some American literature or English literature,
And of course, at that age, well, you really don't
pay much attention. Right,
right. What do teachers think of you as a student?
Well, probably a dreamer. What do you mean by that?
Well, I mean, you're always looking out the window
and wanting to be outside rather than inside, that
type of thing. At least that's what they say.
And I don't know exactly what type of grade I had in
high school. I would say that I was making A's or
100's in mathematics and physics and this type of
thing. I was probably making in Spanish and Latin
and all those. I was probably just passing.
What about your popularity? Would you consider
yourself popular in high school? Well,
Stevenson, I guess everybody was popular. I don't
know. Well, did they like you? I guess that's what I
mean. Did you feel that your other student
colleagues liked you? Well, I don't know. I don't
think you ever get impressed as to whether or not
they like you or not. I had Debbie Harlan, who was a
real good friend.
we really piled around together all the time. And
as far as getting in fights, you very seldom get in a
squabble with anybody or things of this sort.
Okay. Now you became a leader in the military. Were
you a in any way a leader of any groups or
organizations or maybe your baseball club or
anything when you were in high school? I mean did
this leadership ability develop at this age or
later?
Well,
I don't know whether how it really develops. It's
real difficult to determine how you develop
leadership or I think your Compassion is
developed during your high school years and your
work years. I think the way that your mother and dad
handles you as far as giving you responsibilities
and put you out on a cotton patch and go off and leave
you and expect you to do your job, and you do it. I
think that being a leader on a football team, I
don't think I was in the end.
So you really didn't, everybody played so
I don't think it really had an effect on me. When you
graduated from high school, At that time in your
life, 17, 18 years old, did you have specific aims?
No, really I didn't. I mean, I think I was just about
like everybody else. I was a lot of boys that really
didn't know what they wanted to do. And the only
thing that I think that as far as everything along
came to September, you were ready to go to school
again. You really didn't know what you wanted to
do. somebody from Tyler Commercial College had
come around to the high schools, must have, and
briefed you on. I was going to ask you why you went
there. Well, I don't know how I got there. But I'm
quite sure that Mr. Roberts, who was president of
Tyler Commercial College, must have either come
around to the high school or sent you literature of
some sort. But anyway.
I got a hold of their name someplace. Then I think I
borrowed about $200 from the bank to pay the
tuition and the board and room that was on Tyler
Commercial College and I took off. Well why did you
think that obviously a commercial college is
going to train you to become a businessman? or
something along that respect. Why did you decide
to go into a future of business instead of farming?
Well, as far as farming is concerned, it has so many
ups and downs. I mean, your drought, one year why we
would have plenty of everything, and the next year
why even frost would destroy your plantings. To
me, it was a real frustrating type of business to be
in. And
once you get into it, why, you're stuck in it. I
mean, it's really hard to get out of it. Sure, but it
also seems, from what you've been saying, that you
had a real stable,
very stable economic base in your family. Like you
said, you were never hungry. Well, you always had,
Dad had big barns, and he would have hay that he kept
over from year to year, and your corn cribs were
filled, and they would be kept over from year to
year. And so, actually, it would kind of equalize
it, but Still, I figured working on a farm is a real
hard job. There should be some better way to make a
living than that. OK. At that age of 18, when you
decided to go to Tyler Commercial College, were
there any other alternatives besides either
becoming a farmer or becoming a businessman?
Well, as far as I could see, that was the only
alternative, as I said. Okay, what did you think of
Tyler Commercial College? What were your
impressions? Well, Tyler Commercial College was
an extremely good college.
I tell you, instead of taking Greg's shorthand, I
took some of their, I mean, they had developed a
shorthand, which I thought was a mistake that they
were, I think it was called a burn shorthand. But I
learned... bookkeeping there, and I learned
typing there, and then you learned business
letters, and it was a private secretarial course
is what I really took. Not that I had any idea at that
time that that was my ultimate, you know. It was the
beginning then of what would culminate in your
MBA. Yeah, probably has.
The MBA is, we can talk about that probably a little
later. Yeah, we will.
And I had some time. Were you interested in these
business courses? Oh, yeah. Did they spark your
imagination? Oh, well, no, it was, well, I worked
real, I would say I worked, probably in high
school, when you're doing all of your athletic
activities and that type of thing, you really
don't study very much. And I would say I started
studying a little bit when I was in Tyler
Commercial College. Why is that? Well, you didn't
have your outside activities. You didn't have
your athletics and things of that sort. It was just
going to school. and we were living in a rooming
house and there wasn't really a lot to do there. And
you went to church and to school and that was it.
How'd you do? Well, I did pretty good. I got a job
before I graduated from the Lawrence Groceries
Company. What grocery company was that? Lawrence
Groceries Company in Bryan, Texas. And
with the proviso, if I kept the job down there,
they'd send me a graduating certificate later on.
And it must have been around two or three weeks
before I was scheduled to graduate that I went down
to Tyler, down to the law school. So Tyler let you
out two or three weeks early to take this job, and
then if you maintained the job, why then they would
send me my certificate later. I see. Did they? Did
they send you? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Well see the
Lawrence Grocery Company is, was a company that
had hired a number of graduates from Tyler
Commercial College before. So they had, they knew
about Tyler Commercial College so they accepted
their recommendation.
And then of course
after leaving Tyler Commercial College, getting
to work at Lawrence Grocery Company, while Mr.
Lawrence, John M. Lawrence, was a real fine
individual. I'd say he is one of two individuals
outside of my parents who really influenced me a
lot. I mean, he was very considerate and
paid me well as far as I was concerned at the time,
even though it was $75 a month,
and was very fair, very small organization, and he
was very generous as far as
permitting me later on to, see he suggested that I
apply for a poem at the West Point. I mean really I
got the name from him because he at one time applied
for an appointment at West Point and couldn't get
an appointment. So he was very instrumental in
suggesting that I apply for an appointment at West
Point and he got the ball rolling.
This seems rather unusual that here you are in
Bryan, Texas right next to Texas A&M. And this man
is thinking that you should go to West Point
instead of Texas A&M. Did he also suggest that you
should start at Texas A&M? No. Why did you start at
Texas A&M? Well, I
worked with Lawrenceville Grocery Company for
about 18 months. And I decided to... Well, $75 a
month, I saved enough money out of that $75 to pay my
$200 back to the bank. And then he raised my pay to
$100 a month. And then I saved, in 18 months, I saved
about $500, which is $200
to pay that off and about $300 to go to school. And I
decided, by the way, you may not even get to West
Point. I mean, the idea that he suggested it, and I
worked at it, but I decided I'd better get going. At
that time, after working about a year and a half out
of Tyler Commercial College, I decided that I was
going to have to get an education of some sort.
Why'd you decide that? Well, I don't know. You
know, you don't know why you decide to. Not very
many people back in 1926, 1927 were going to
college. And Harry, here you come up with this idea
that you have to get an education. Well, there were
a lot of people at Texas A&M then. I don't know how
many people were in the school, but
I just couldn't see being an assistant bookkeeper
and a billing clerk all your life. If I'd stayed at
Lawrence Grocery Company, I'd probably owned the
place at some time later time. But at that time, I
was getting to the point where I was in a hurry, I
guess. Would you have considered yourself
ambitious? Well, I don't know. You don't think of
yourself as being ambitious. trying to do at that
time is decide what you want to do. And I think after
working at this grocery company of unloading,
well, unloading boxcars full of sugar and flour
and counting noses and doing all the billing and
being assistant bookkeeper, why it appeared to
you that it would take you ten years or fifteen
years or twenty years to ever become one of the
salesmen.
So Mr. Lawrence, when I, well he was working on
getting me an apartment in Westbourne. What he did
was really find out who had an apartment. I mean he
was on good terms with the various
representatives from the area and also the from
Texas,
and between he and W.S. Barron. Now W.S. Barron was
at that time a representative to the Texas
legislature, and he was also a Sunday school
teacher in the College Avenue Baptist Church. Now
the College Avenue Baptist Church is no longer,
the name has And that's where I attended. So
between the two of them, they gave me a lot of
encouragement. And
then to get my poem at the West Point, I used, being a
typist, I used to write letters of
recommendation. Well, Mr. Lawrence really found
out that Tom Connolly, who was was a
representative from the 11th district, which was
my home district, had an appointment. And so then
me, then I started flooding him with letters of
recommendation. I used to walk him down the
streets of Bryan, Texas and get anybody to sign a
letter of recommendation and mail it to him. And
I'd mail him probably three or four or five a week.
between those two individuals and I think it was
Mrs. Pondexter who was the editor or the owner of
the Bryan newspaper. Those three individuals
helped me out a lot. And so I applied for the
Department of the West part and I wasn't very
confident that I was going to get it being I think
the first time Mr. Lawrence mentioned West Point I
said, well where is that? I wasn't
very familiar with it.
So I worked on getting a part with West Point and I
decided to quit and go to Texas A&M to work my way
through school. So I had my three hundred dollars.
So you had enough funds? Well, I really didn't have
enough funds. I worked
for Mr. Smith, who had a produce company, which was
cleaning chickens. You mean you quit Lawrence and
went to work for Smith? Well, it was a part-time.
See, for him, they gave me a room and board. And I was
work the garden, drive Mrs. Smith wherever she
wanted to go, wash the cars, keep them clean, wait
on her table, and then on Saturdays I cleaned
chickens in his produce place. And I got my room and
board.
And I attended Texas A&M as a day student.
Obviously you're on Bryan, but tell me some other
reasons why you decided to go to Texas A&M. Well, a
number of my friends were going there who were also
day students, and a guy named Black who had a
vehicle and I could ride back and forth with him.
And you also could get in the Corps, and in fact
almost everybody then was in the Corps. Sure. and
you got paid some kind of allowance from the Army
for being in the Corps and being in ROTC. So anyway,
any way to make a dime, I was interested in it.
Did the military aspect of A&M have anything to do
with your decision? What were your thoughts as a
young man on the military? Well, I was after an
education, really, and I went to West Point
because it was free education. I really wasn't
thinking about— You hadn't thought much about the
military. No, you really hadn't. You had no
contact with the military.
The only other thing, you joined the Corps because
that was the thing to do, and also you got some kind
of clothing allowance or something to do.
Did you think of any other alternatives? You were a
young man in search of an education, it seems to me.
Did you ever think of going to the University of
Texas or going to Rice or any other institution in
the state? No, the only other ones that I was
interested in attending was Naval Academy or
Coast Guard Academy or any of the academies that
paid you to go to school. And I did apply to... to all
of those. You did, really? Oh, yeah. And what was
the outcome? Well, the Naval Academy, I was
approaching the age limit that I could get in
there. See, West Point I think is twenty-two or
twenty-one, and I think that Naval Academy could
be over twenty. And then the Coast Guard Academy,
why, well,
I just work on that too hard, because I don't know
why.
I just got to the point where I had somebody, Tom
Conley, who had an appointment at West Point, and I
just concentrated on him. Okay. Now, tell me about
your first impressions when you became a student
at A&M. Well, you really don't remember a lot about
it.
And I thoroughly enjoyed all my courses there. Of
course, I can't remember of having a counselor say
you could only take so many subjects. I think you
just walked in and said, I want this, this, this,
and this. And somebody told you that, well, you're
going to have to take this course because your high
school didn't teach it. And therefore, you had to,
it's a non-credit course. So you just took it. and
bought your books
and of course why I selected architecture I don't
know. That's a good question. That was my next
question. You were interested in mathematics and
you had some business background and then you
decided to become an architect. Any ideas on that?
I'm talented in that particular field. I mean,
just like getting in the housing business after
retiring. I think that the fact that I was
interested in architecture and
layout of buildings and construction of
buildings is what I was really, really interested
in at the time. And so I really was thinking I was
going to concentrate in the get into the larger
building type of thing. And
you can't remember too much about going to Texas
A&M other than the fact that you work and you never
did anything. I never saw a football game, I never
saw a movie, you never had a date unless it was
church or something in some place that didn't cost
anything.
You were just working all the time then? Yeah, well
I got down to oh about $165 during that year and then
Lawrence Closet got me, gave me a bonus of $50. See
I'd worked for them half a year so at Christmas time
they gave me gave me a bonus of $50, which, well,
that was about a million dollars at that time.
Sure, sure. Because that really helped me, that
really got me over the hump. And then the last month
that I was at Texas A&M, I had enough money to pay
room and board, so I moved out of the Smith's house
into a rooming house for the last
about last 30 days.
You were a day student, while most of the students
at that time of course lived right in the dorms. Did
you have any problems with that? Well, you
probably didn't. Being a day student probably
took a lot away from the, a little away from the
hazing that you got. Sure. Because you weren't in a
position that they could chase you out of the
barracks in the middle of the night or go out and
sleep in the haystacks and things of this sort. But
you got plenty of paddling. And
the fish year was, I'd say the fish year at Texas A&M
is a lot worse than the cleave year at West Point.
Oh, it was. Oh, yeah. There's no question about it.
Because at West Point, they don't touch you,
whereas at Texas A&M, they pat you and
at that time hate you pretty well.
What outfit in the corps were you in? I think I was in
engineers. And I think all architectural
students were in engineers and several
engineering students and what have you. I think
that's the way it was divided, as I remember. Did
they have you in a special day student corps
outfit? No, I don't think so. I don't remember
really too much about it, but it seems to me that you
always went to that particular barracks or
whatever they
call them, at that time. where the headquarters
were, and that's where you reported in. Did you
have to report in every morning? I don't remember.
I don't think so. I think you only reported in when
you had drill or some military subject that you had
to take. You were only in the Corps for one year.
What were your colleagues like?
Well, real, I mean, as far as I was concerned, the
people who were in the architecture were, I mean,
they were all real fine individuals. I mean, all of
them had the same problem as I.
I would say that there's, we wrote back and forth, I
read four or five day students from Brian, but
your, the youngsters who worked on who lived on
campus, well I don't, you don't remember a lot of,
there's no carousing, no drinking, no dope, no,
everybody that would seem to be was there for an
education. And they worked, and everybody worked
hard.